All right.
So let's take a closer look what we've got inside of our Boston dataset bunch.
Before we were talking about the attributes of this object the thing is in machine learning this word
attribute is gonna be used in a different context in machine learning the features of a data set are
typically represented as the columns in a table and these columns you'll often see refer to as the attributes
of a data set.
In other words when using this word attribute and the machine learning context we will refer to a feature
or an independent variable.
And this is what we're going to be using to predict a house price.
So yeah the word attribute is used both in Python as well as in machine learning but unfortunately the
mean completely different things so speaking of features let's pull up the features of our dataset in
the python notebook and we can do this again using the Boston underscore data set object which has an
attribute called feature underscore names let's print this out here we can see all the feature names
of our data set in a nice little array.
Again the desired function was really really handy in ascertaining that our bunch has a attribute called
feature underscore names.
So these are the kind of niceties that you're going to get with a toy dataset like this.
Now taking a look at these feature names the question you might ask is Where is the house price.
Where is the price of the houses.
Because we've got a bunch of abbreviations here and none of them seem to suggest anything about the
values of the houses that we're looking to estimate.
So this means that this is hidden somewhere else.
The key thing what we're trying to predict is found in an attribute called target.
So Boston underscore data set don't target well bring up the actual prices of the houses.
This is why we didn't get a separate column for the house prices earlier.
The house prices are actually found somewhere else in our bunch.
Object now looking at these house prices.
You might be wondering 24 21 34.
These look like they're the prices for toy houses or something.
They don't look high enough to be the dollar values of actual houses because no house could possibly
cost the twenty four dollars right.
Unless of course you buy it off.
Ali express or something sort of thing to note is that these units are actually in thousands.
So these are the actual prices in thousands.
I'm going to add this here as a comment.
So if you come back to this note book in three months time this is still going to make sense now.
Now working with a bunch of object in the notebook is all very well and good but one of the most common
types of objects that you're actually going to be encountering in your work as a machine learning expert
or as a data scientist is the pandas.
Data from the pandas data frame is gonna be our main workhorse.
So let me add a little section heading here to commemorate this.
At a subheading here that reads data exploration with pandas data frames and what I want to do is I'm
going to create a variable here called data and I'm going to have this variable hold on to our pandas
data frame object and the way we're going to create this data frame is using the pandas module.
So before writing any more code here I'm going to have to import this pen.
This module right.
I can just write PD dot data frame without importing my pandas module first.
So I'm going to pause here for a second.
Go back up to the top where I've got all my input statements and then write import pandas as PD and
head shift enter now can come back down here and actually make use of our module to construct our data
frame from our Boston underscored data set.
We're going supply some arguments between these parentheses.
The first argument is called data and we're gonna set that equal to Boston underscore dataset dot data.
So this is gonna be the NUM pi array contained inside of our Boston data set bunch.
The next argument columns it's gonna be the argument for the column names and we're gonna set that equal
to Boston on a score data set don't feature underscore names.
And what this code will do is it will create a panda's data frame
now remember how our price our house prices will not be included in this.
So going to add those separately.
Now I'm going to add a column uh with the price.
Yeah.
Our target to the data frame the way we want to do this is by using our data frame variable which is
called data having some square brackets after it.
And in those square brackets I want to supply a column name.
So when I call this column price all caps and I'm going to set it equal to Boston underscore dataset
dot target.
Okay.
So let's head shift and sit together and see if we get any errors.
How good.
Let me add a few more cells here and then we can continue to explore our data and I'll show you a couple
of tricks using the pandas data from the thing is oftentimes your data frame will be huge.
This one just has five hundred and six rows.
But oftentimes you're gonna be working with data frames with many thousands of rows or tens of thousands.
So the question is how can you get a glimpse of the data inside a huge data frame without printing out
all of the values.
And for that pandas gives us two data frame methods.
The first one is called Head.
And the second one is called tail.
Let me show you how you'd use them if we were to write data and hit shift enter our notebook would output
a whole bunch of rows but if we wanted to just take a gander at the first couple of rows in the data
frame say rows 0 through 4 for example we could write data dot head parentheses and hitting shift into
what we see instead are rows 0 through 4 This will give us an idea of the kind of values that are contained
inside of our roads and our columns without having to look at an enormous amount of data so let me add
a little comment here that says the top rows look like this.
Now it follows that data dot tail parentheses will show us the rows at the bottom of the data frame
right rows at bottom of data frame look like this.
Scrolling down we can see that rows 501 through 505 have this kind of data inside of them.
I personally really like these two methods for looking at the top part of the data and the bottom part
of the data just to get an idea of what we're working with.
Now if we wanted to figure out how many rows are data frame has or we just wanted to retrieve the rows
in each column there's a handy little method called count.
So data don't count parentheses will show us the number of rows and that's for each column.
Check it out
in the output below you see the number of entries per column.
So each column has five hundred and six entries.
Now coming back to this topic of language and lingo and jargon you'll often hear the number of data
points or rows being referred to as the number of instances.
So here we've got and 506 instances.
This is how this would instance is used in the context of machine learning and the important thing to
note here is that this word instance means something completely different to a programmer to a python
programmer.
An instance is an object.
In other words our data object right here is an instance of a data frame a data frame would be the general
category and a particular data frame namely our data frame which we've stored inside our variable here
would then be referred to as an instance.
So yeah the word instance again has a different meaning in machine learning and in programming.
Again this is just something to be aware of.
Moving onto our next topic let's add a few more cells here and make the first one a markdown cell where
we're going to add a subheading called Cleaning data check for missing values so when you're doing your
data exploration oftentimes you're going to look for problems in your data set and dealing with missing
data is definitely a kind of problem that you have to address because I guarantee you that your machine
learning algorithm is gonna get really confused and give you really terrible answers if you haven't
addressed this ahead of time and are feeding clean data to your algorithm.
So you might remember how we've addressed the missing values when we were analyzing our movie revenues.
The problem that we're confronted with at the moment is how do we find the missing values and how do
we find them quickly.
Pandas actually has a function called is no and this function will return to us a table if any of the
values were missing.
Now let me show you how you use it since this function comes from the pandas module.
We're gonna have to access it through PD dot is null and that's an argument we can have to pass in the
data that we want the function to check.
So if stored all of this inside our data data frame and hitting shift enter on this will now return
to us.
Hey hold table where each entry is either false meaning no missing values or true which means missing
values.
You can see this is a huge table right Jupiter notebook is not even showing us the entire table here.
So the question is how would we know if there are any missing values in this entire table of 506 entries
and the answer is we can chain another method call onto this one.
So we've caught our table back and it's a table of true and false entries.
And if we chain a method called any parentheses and hit shift enter then what we get is we got pandas
checking all the columns and telling us if there are any missing values in any of the columns.
Now I don't know if you've heard the word null before but no does not mean the value 0.
So if a variable is equal to the value null it contains nothing which is very very different from the
variable having the value 0 and the Internet has decided that the best way to summarize this is as a
picture of a problem.
I wouldn't wish upon anyone in a public restroom on the left we have the dispenser containing the value
zero and on the right we have the dispenser containing the value.
No this is no method changed with the any method is super handy for figuring out if there are any missing
values in your dataset because if there is a missing value in one of the columns then instead of this
would false being printed here you will see the word true and then you might have to dig into the data
and fix the problem.
Now let me show you an alternative way of doing this check because this first method here is null and
any belong to the pandas module.
The next method I'm going to show you the alternative belongs to the data frame instead typing data
dot info so using our data object and then calling the info method on it will show us not only if there
are any null values but it'll also show us a whole bunch of other information including the number of
entries or rows the number of columns the names of the columns if any of the columns have a no value
and also the type of object that each column contains.
In our case all of the columns contain float 64 type objects.
Now if you're new to programming this will look super jargon.
So let me explain what this means.
A float is programming jargon for a floating point number what's the floating point number nothing special.
It just refers to a decimal number to a floating point number has a decimal point but something like
an integer does not.
In other words Python has different categories for different types of numbers.
So this number 64 at the end of the word float shows us that the category that we're working with here
is a large and precise decimal number in this case.
I've got a 64 bit floating point number that takes up 64 bits of memory and that would be in contrast
to less precise numbers like a float 32 or a float sixteen Hey float 64 number contains twice as many
digits and takes up twice as much memory as a float 32.
So that's what that means.
In any case the good news is that we have no missing values which is great.
One less thing to worry about.
So now we can start to explore our features that are contained in the dataset.
It's time to demystify these mysterious sounding columns like R.M. Knox and this can wait to see you
in the next lesson.